deps/README.md, before:

This directory contains all Redis dependencies, except for the libc that
should be provided by the operating system.

* **Jemalloc** is our memory allocator, used as replacement for libc malloc on Linux by default. It has good performances and excellent fragmentation behavior. This component is upgraded from time to time.
* **geohash-int** is inside the dependencies directory but is actually part of the Redis project, since it is our private fork (heavily modified) of a library initially developed for Ardb, which is in turn a fork of Redis.
* **hiredis** is the official C client library for Redis. It is used by redis-cli, redis-benchmark and Redis Sentinel. It is part of the Redis official ecosystem but is developed externally from the Redis repository, so we just upgrade it as needed.
* **linenoise** is a readline replacement. It is developed by the same authors of Redis but is managed as a separated project and updated as needed.
* **lua** is Lua 5.1 with minor changes for security and additional libraries.

How to upgrade the above dependencies
===

Jemalloc
---

Jemalloc is modified with changes that allow us to implement the Redis
active defragmentation logic. However this feature of Redis is not mandatory
and Redis is able to understand if the Jemalloc version it is compiled
against supports such Redis-specific modifications. So in theory, if you
are not interested in the active defragmentation, you can replace Jemalloc
just following tose steps:

1. Remove the jemalloc directory.
2. Substitute it with the new jemalloc source tree.

However note that we change Jemalloc settings via the `configure` script of Jemalloc using the `--with-lg-quantum` option, setting it to the value of 3 instead of 4. This provides us with more size classes that better suit the Redis data structures, in order to gain memory efficiency.

Instead if you want to upgrade Jemalloc while also providing support for
defragmentation, you have to replace it with a newer version, and make
the following changes:

1. In Jemalloc three, file `include/jemalloc/jemalloc_macros.h.in`, make sure
   to add `#define JEMALLOC_FRAG_HINT`.
2. Implement the function `je_get_defrag_hint()` inside `src/jemalloc.c`. You
   can see how it is implemented in the current Jemalloc source tree shipped
   with Redis, and rewrite it according to the new Jemalloc internals, if they
   changed, otherwise you could just copy the old implementation if you are
   upgrading just to a similar version of Jemalloc.

Geohash
---

This is never upgraded since it's part of the Redis project. If there are changes to merge from Ardb there is the need to manually check differences, but at this point the source code is pretty different.

Hiredis
---

Hiredis uses the SDS string library, that must be the same version used inside Redis itself. Hiredis is also very critical for Sentinel. Historically Redis often used forked versions of hiredis in a way or the other. In order to upgrade it is adviced to take a lot of care:

1. Check with diff if hiredis API changed and what impact it could have in Redis.
2. Make sure thet the SDS library inside Hiredis and inside Redis are compatible.
3. After the upgrade, run the Redis Sentinel test.
4. Check manually that redis-cli and redis-benchmark behave as expecteed, since we have no tests for CLI utilities currently.

Linenoise
---

Linenoise is rarely upgraded as needed. The upgrade process is trivial since
Redis uses a non modified version of linenoise, so to upgrade just do the
following:

1. Remove the linenoise directory.
2. Substitute it with the new linenoise source tree.

Lua
---

We use Lua 5.1 and no upgrade is planned currently, since we don't want to break
Lua scripts for new Lua features: in the context of Redis Lua scripts the
capabilities of 5.1 are usually more than enough, the release is rock solid,
and we definitely don't want to break old scripts.

So upgrading of Lua is up to the Redis project maintainers and should be a
manual procedure performed by taking a diff between the different versions.

Currently we have at least the following differences between official Lua 5.1
and our version:

1. Makefile is modified to allow a different compiler than GCC.
2. We have the implementation source code, and directly link to the following external libraries: `lua_cjson.o`, `lua_struct.o`, `lua_cmsgpack.o` and `lua_bit.o`.
3. There is a security fix in `ldo.c`, line 498: The check for `LUA_SIGNATURE[0]` is removed in order toa void direct bytecode exectuion.

Commit message:

Specify that Jemalloc configure requires version.

deps/README.md, after:

This directory contains all Redis dependencies, except for the libc that
should be provided by the operating system.

* **Jemalloc** is our memory allocator, used as replacement for libc malloc on Linux by default. It has good performances and excellent fragmentation behavior. This component is upgraded from time to time.
* **geohash-int** is inside the dependencies directory but is actually part of the Redis project, since it is our private fork (heavily modified) of a library initially developed for Ardb, which is in turn a fork of Redis.
* **hiredis** is the official C client library for Redis. It is used by redis-cli, redis-benchmark and Redis Sentinel. It is part of the Redis official ecosystem but is developed externally from the Redis repository, so we just upgrade it as needed.
* **linenoise** is a readline replacement. It is developed by the same authors of Redis but is managed as a separated project and updated as needed.
* **lua** is Lua 5.1 with minor changes for security and additional libraries.

How to upgrade the above dependencies
===

Jemalloc
---

Jemalloc is modified with changes that allow us to implement the Redis
active defragmentation logic. However this feature of Redis is not mandatory
and Redis is able to understand if the Jemalloc version it is compiled
against supports such Redis-specific modifications. So in theory, if you
are not interested in the active defragmentation, you can replace Jemalloc
just following tose steps:

1. Remove the jemalloc directory.
2. Substitute it with the new jemalloc source tree.
3. Edit the Makefile localted in the same directoy as the README you are
   reading, and change the --with-version in the Jemalloc configure script
   options with the version you are using. This is required because otherwise
   Jemalloc configuration script is broken and will not work nested in another
   git repository.

However note that we change Jemalloc settings via the `configure` script of Jemalloc using the `--with-lg-quantum` option, setting it to the value of 3 instead of 4. This provides us with more size classes that better suit the Redis data structures, in order to gain memory efficiency.

If you want to upgrade Jemalloc while also providing support for
active defragmentation, in addition to the above steps you need to perform
the following additional steps:

5. In Jemalloc three, file `include/jemalloc/jemalloc_macros.h.in`, make sure
   to add `#define JEMALLOC_FRAG_HINT`.
6. Implement the function `je_get_defrag_hint()` inside `src/jemalloc.c`. You
   can see how it is implemented in the current Jemalloc source tree shipped
   with Redis, and rewrite it according to the new Jemalloc internals, if they
   changed, otherwise you could just copy the old implementation if you are
   upgrading just to a similar version of Jemalloc.

Geohash
---

This is never upgraded since it's part of the Redis project. If there are changes to merge from Ardb there is the need to manually check differences, but at this point the source code is pretty different.

Hiredis
---

Hiredis uses the SDS string library, that must be the same version used inside Redis itself. Hiredis is also very critical for Sentinel. Historically Redis often used forked versions of hiredis in a way or the other. In order to upgrade it is adviced to take a lot of care:

1. Check with diff if hiredis API changed and what impact it could have in Redis.
2. Make sure thet the SDS library inside Hiredis and inside Redis are compatible.
3. After the upgrade, run the Redis Sentinel test.
4. Check manually that redis-cli and redis-benchmark behave as expecteed, since we have no tests for CLI utilities currently.

Linenoise
---

Linenoise is rarely upgraded as needed. The upgrade process is trivial since
Redis uses a non modified version of linenoise, so to upgrade just do the
following:

1. Remove the linenoise directory.
2. Substitute it with the new linenoise source tree.

Lua
---

We use Lua 5.1 and no upgrade is planned currently, since we don't want to break
Lua scripts for new Lua features: in the context of Redis Lua scripts the
capabilities of 5.1 are usually more than enough, the release is rock solid,
and we definitely don't want to break old scripts.

So upgrading of Lua is up to the Redis project maintainers and should be a
manual procedure performed by taking a diff between the different versions.

Currently we have at least the following differences between official Lua 5.1
and our version:

1. Makefile is modified to allow a different compiler than GCC.
2. We have the implementation source code, and directly link to the following external libraries: `lua_cjson.o`, `lua_struct.o`, `lua_cmsgpack.o` and `lua_bit.o`.
3. There is a security fix in `ldo.c`, line 498: The check for `LUA_SIGNATURE[0]` is removed in order toa void direct bytecode exectuion.
